\input texinfo  @c -*-Texinfo-*-
@c To compile: makeinfo  -I . rsplit.texi -o rsplit.info

@setfilename rsplit.info
@settitle rsplit Manual
@footnotestyle end

@ifinfo
@dircategory Text creation and manipulation
@direntry
* rsplit: (rsplit).	rsplit manual
@end direntry

This is @cite{The rsplit Manual}, for rsplit.

Copyright 2011, 2012, 2013 Matthew Love.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@end ignore

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title rsplit
@subtitle Randomly extract lines from a text file.
@subtitle Manual
@author Matthew Love
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2011, 2012, 2013 Matthew Love.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.
@end titlepage

@node Top, Copying, (dir), (dir)

@ifnottex
This document describes the program @code{rsplit}.

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Copying::                     Distribution conditions
* Introduction::                Brief introduction to rsplit

* Using rsplit::                Using rsplit
* Examples::                    Examples
@end menu

@node Copying, Introduction, Top, Top
@chapter Copying
@cindex Copying

rsplit is copyright (C) 2011, 2012, 2013 Matthew Love and is released under the
terms of the GNU General Public License. See the included file
@file{COPYING} for the full text of the license (or @pxref{Copying, ,
Copying, emacs, The GNU Emacs Manual}).

@quotation
This is free software -- you are welcome to redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or
(at your option) any later version.

rsplit is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
@end quotation

@node Introduction, Using rsplit, Copying, Top
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

Randomly extract a percentage or set number of lines from a text file.  The randomly extracted lines gets printed to @code{stdout}, optionally, the remaining lines can be printed to @code{stderr}, allowing for the random splitting of text files.

@node Using rsplit, Examples, Introduction, Top
@chapter Using rsplit
@cindex Using rsplit
@cindex rsplit, using

rsplit is a command-line program designed to be run in a shell program such as bash.

For general usage help from the command-line, the @code{--help} swich can be used. 

@verbatim
~] rsplit --help

Usage: rpslit [OPTIONS] [infile]

Randomly extract a percentage of lines from a text file.

Options:
  -p, --percent         The percent of lines to randomly extract 
                        from the input.
  -n, --number  	If set, will interpret the -p option as the total number of
                	lines to extract, rather than as a percentage.
  -l, --line-num        Include line numbers in output.
  -r, --remaining       Send the lines that aren't extracted to stderr.

  --version             Print version information and exit.

Example: rsplit test.xyz -p 20 -lr > test_rand20.xyz 2>test_base.xyz
@end verbatim

@itemize @bullet
@item The @code{-p, --percent} switch specifies the percentage of randomly selected points to extract from the given text file.
@item The @code{-l, --line-num} switch prints the line number along with the original line from the input text file.
@item The @code{-r, --remianing} switch prints the remianing lines after random extraction to @code{stderr}.
@end itemize

@node Examples, ,Using rsplit, Top
@chapter Examples
@cindex Examples

@itemize @bullet
@item Extract 20 percent of the lines in the input text file and print the results to stdout

@verbatim
~] rsplit -p 20 input.txt
@end verbatim

@item Extract 15 percent of the lines in the input text file and write the results to a file, include the line numbers

@verbatim
~] rsplit -p 20 --line-num input.txt > rand20_input.txt
@end verbatim

@item Extract 40 percent of the lines in the input text file, write the results to a file and send the remaining lines to another file.

@verbatim
~] rsplit test.xyz -p 40 -r > test_rand40.xyz 2>test_base60.xyz
@end verbatim

@item Extract 100 random lines from the input text file, write the results to a file and send the remaining lines to another file.

@verbatim
~] rsplit test.xyz -p 100 -nr > test_rand.xyz 2>test_base.xyz
@end verbatim
@end itemize

@contents
@bye
